---
layout: article
title:  "Getting Started in Bioinformatics"
date:   2018-01-19 9:00 -0600
categories: Writing
---

This is a question I see ad nauseam in various online communities. Any form of
"Where should I start, and what do i need to learn to get into bioinformatics?". So, in the hopes of guiding others who are just getting started or interested in getting started, I wanted to write a brief post about how I got started, and what I did to actually learn genomics.

This guide it by no means intensvie. The reality is that genomics is far too
vast and large for me to try and teach yo ueverything you need to know. Rather,
I'll just be highlighting a few fundamental building blocks that you'll need to
know to really begin understanding genomics as a whole.


##### 1. The Very Beggining

The first thing you must absolutly learn is command line. Command line is a
simplified method in which you can access and interact with your computer.
Rather than 


So, I would reccomend that the first thing that anyone getting started need to
learn is command line. In bioinformatics many of the programs that are
utalizied do not have a Graphical User Interfaces (GUI), so instead you must
interact with them on a more basic level of computation, the command line

To learn the ins and ours of command line i would reccomend a few places to
start. If you're technophobic and a little unsure of yourself i would reccomend
Code Academy. Code Academy offers users the oppertunity to beggin learning the
basics of using command lines on a ocmputer without the need to worry if you're
"messing up" your computer.


##### 2. The Actual Programming

While learning the command line is a crucial step in bioinforamtics, learning
to program and script are fundamental and important skills any developing
bioinformatician must learn. 

##### 3. Getting to Know The "Greatest Hits"

##### 4. Creating Projects

##### 5. Reading Scienctific Articles

This is an aspect of bioinformatics/genomics that I believe is heavily
understated in most "intro" guides. While many such guides instruct you to get
a handle and grasp on programming, far fewer discuss the necessity of reading
everything you possibly can related to the field. With whatever you end up
pursiong there's no point in redoing work that has been done by a precursor.
Why try and create a genome assembler without knowing the current
methadologies. Reading, and reserach is crucial.

Something I found to be 


##### 6. Continue to Learn

The last point I'll make in this list is that this list is far from exhaustive.
Bioinforamtics is a massive field that is only getting more complex and
advanced as time goes on. This puts the task of continuoius development
direcltly on the individual. There comes a point where no one can teach you
everything you must learn, so it's up to you to figure out what you need to
learn, and how to learn it.

The best people in thie field are those who have a voracious desire to learn
and understand. My advice is to keep trying, and keep advancing. It's amazing
what consisten effort can yield even if you don't belive yourself to be gifted


